Title: Attention Is All You Need
Authors: Ashish Vaswani, Noam Shazeer, Niki Parmar, Jakob Uszkoreit, Llion Jones, Aidan N. Gomez, Lukasz Kaiser, Illia Polosukhin
Published: 2017, NeurIPS

Abstract:
The dominant sequence transduction models are based on complex recurrent or convolutional neural networks that include an encoder and a decoder. The best performing models also connect the encoder and decoder through an attention mechanism. We propose a new simple network architecture, the Transformer, based solely on attention mechanisms, dispensing with recurrence and convolutions entirely. Experiments on two machine translation tasks show these models to be superior in quality while being more parallelizable and requiring significantly less time to train.

1. Introduction
Recurrent neural networks, long short-term memory (LSTM) and gated recurrent neural networks in particular, have been firmly established as state of the art approaches in sequence modeling and transduction problems such as language modeling and machine translation. Numerous efforts have since continued to push the boundaries of recurrent language models and encoder-decoder architectures.

Recurrent models typically factor computation along the symbol positions of the input and output sequences. This inherently sequential nature precludes parallelization within training examples, which becomes critical at longer sequence lengths.

2. Model Architecture
The Transformer follows an encoder-decoder structure. The encoder maps an input sequence to a sequence of continuous representations. Given these representations, the decoder generates an output sequence one element at a time.

2.1 Encoder
The encoder is composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. Each layer has two sub-layers:
  (1) Multi-head self-attention mechanism
  (2) Position-wise fully connected feed-forward network

2.2 Decoder
The decoder is also composed of a stack of N=6 identical layers. In addition to the two sub-layers in each encoder layer, the decoder inserts a third sub-layer which performs multi-head attention over the output of the encoder stack.

2.3 Attention
An attention function maps a query and a set of key-value pairs to an output. The output is computed as a weighted sum of the values, where the weight assigned to each value is computed by a compatibility function of the query with the corresponding key.

Scaled Dot-Product Attention:
  Attention(Q, K, V) = softmax(QK^T / sqrt(d_k)) * V

Multi-Head Attention:
  MultiHead(Q, K, V) = Concat(head_1, ..., head_h) * W_O
  where head_i = Attention(Q * W_Q_i, K * W_K_i, V * W_V_i)

3. Why Self-Attention
We compare self-attention layers to recurrent and convolutional layers on three criteria:
  - Total computational complexity per layer
  - Amount of computation that can be parallelized
  - Path length between long-range dependencies in the network

Self-attention layers connect all positions with O(1) sequential operations, whereas a recurrent layer requires O(n) sequential operations.

4. Training
We trained on the WMT 2014 English-German dataset consisting of about 4.5 million sentence pairs and the WMT 2014 English-French dataset consisting of 36 million sentence pairs.

Optimizer: Adam with beta_1=0.9, beta_2=0.98, epsilon=10^-9
Regularization: Residual Dropout (P_drop=0.1), Label Smoothing (epsilon_ls=0.1)

5. Results
On the WMT 2014 English-to-German translation task, the big transformer model outperforms the best previously reported models including ensembles by more than 2.0 BLEU, establishing a new state-of-the-art BLEU score of 28.4.

On the WMT 2014 English-to-French translation task, our big model achieves a BLEU score of 41.0, outperforming all previously published single models at less than 1/4 the training cost of the previous state-of-the-art model.

6. Conclusion
In this work, we presented the Transformer, the first sequence transduction model based entirely on attention, replacing the recurrent layers most commonly used in encoder-decoder architectures with multi-headed self-attention.

The Transformer can be trained significantly faster than architectures based on recurrent or convolutional layers. We achieved new state of the art on English-to-German and English-to-French translation tasks. We plan to extend the Transformer to problems involving input and output modalities other than text.
